---
id: "15102023_FEGW"
date: "Sunday, October 15, 2023"
alias:
  - "15102023_FEGW"
tags:
  - "#notes"
  - "#notes/15102023"
---

[Main resource](https://codevoweb.com/api-golang-postgresql-sqlc-gin-gonic-project-setup)

# Prerequisites

- Have Golang and Docker installed on your system
- Basic knowledge of Golang and SQL

# Setup

- **app.env**

```env
PORT=8000
NODE_ENV=development

POSTGRES_DRIVER=postgres
POSTGRES_SOURCE=postgresql://admin:password123@localhost:6500/golang_postgres?sslmode=disable

POSTGRES_HOST=127.0.0.1
POSTGRES_PORT=6500
POSTGRES_USER=admin
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password123
POSTGRES_DB=golang_postgres
```

- **Docker**
  With the above Docker configurations, run this command to start the PostgreSQL container:

```sh
docker-compose up -d
```

Run this command to see if the container is running:

```sh
docker ps
```

Run this command to stop the container:

```sh
docker-compose down
```

# Datasbase Migration

- **Intsallation for postgresql**

```sh
go install -tags 'postgres' github.com/golang-migrate/migrate/v4/cmd/migrate@latest
```

Below are some of the important golang-migrate commands you should know:

- `create` – used to create new migration files
- `goto V` – used to migrate the schema to a specific version
- `up` – this will run the up migration files in sequential order of their prefix version.
- `down` – this will run the down migration files sequentially by the reverse order of their prefix version.

Now create a db/migrations folder in the root directory and run this command to create the up/down migration files.

```sh
migrate create -ext sql -dir db/migrations -seq init_schema
```

- `-ext` – the extension of the files
- `-dir` – the directory to store the generated files
- `-seq` – used to generate a sequential version number for the migration files.

- **Install the UUID OSSP Contrib Module for PostgreSQL**

- Step 1: Run this command to list all the available extensions
- CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "uuid-ossp";
- Jika belum install tinggal :

```sh
sudo dnf install postgresql-contrib-15.4-1.fc38.x86_64
```

# Run the Up Migration to Push the Schema to the database

- Run this command to execute the up migration:

```sh
migrate -path db/migrations -database "postgresql://username:password@localhost:6500/database_name?sslmode=disable" -verbose up
```

# Create CRUD Golang Code with SQLC

Now run `sqlc init` to generate an empty `sqlc.yaml` settings file in the root directory.

sqlc.yaml

```yaml
version: "1"
packages:
  - name: "db"
    path: "./db/sqlc"
    queries: "./db/query"
    schema: "./db/migrations"
    engine: "postgresql"
    emit_prepared_queries: true
    emit_interface: false
    emit_exact_table_names: false
    emit_json_tags: true
```

- `name` – tells SQLC what name to use for the generated Golang package.
- `path` – specifies the path to store the generated Golang CRUD code
- `queries` – tells SQLC the location of the query files.
- `schema` – specifies the path to the SQL migration files
- `engine` – tells SQLC the type of database engine to use. Could be either postgresql or mysql.
- `emit_prepared_queries` – If set to true, SQLC will include support for prepared queries.
- `emit_interface` – If set to true, SQLC will include Querier interface in the generated package. It’s useful when mocking the database to test higher-level functions.
- `emit_json_tag` – if set to true , SQLC will add JSON tags to the generated structs.
- `emit_exact_table_names` – If set to true, Struct names will mirror table names.

In the db folder, create two folders namely query and sqlc . Now in the query folder, create a user.sql file with five queries:

```sql
-- name: CreateUser :one
INSERT INTO users ( name, email, photo, verified, password, role, updated_at ) VALUES ( $1, $2, $3, $4, $5, $6, $7) RETURNING *;

-- name: GetUserById :one
SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = $1 LIMIT 1;

-- name: GetUserByEmail :one
SELECT * FROM users WHERE email = $1 LIMIT 1;

-- name: ListUsers :many
SELECT * FROM users ORDER BY id LIMIT $1 OFFSET $2;

-- name: UpdateUser :one
UPDATE users set name = $2, email = $3, photo = $4, verified = $5, password = $6, role = $7, updated_at = $8 WHERE id = $1 RETURNING *;

-- name: DeleteUser :exec
DELETE FROM users WHERE id = $1;
```

These are just basic SQL queries. The only special thing is the comment on top of them.

The comments will tell SQLC how to generate the Golang functions. The `-- name: CreateUser :one` tells SQLC to generate a Golang function called “CreateUser” and it should return one user document.

With this `-- name: ListUsers :many` , SQLC will create a function called “ListUsers” and the :many label tells SQLC the function will return multiple user documents.

With that out of the way, run this command to generate the Golang CRUD functions:

```sh
sqlc generate
```
